ALL RIGHT, WELCOME TO
THE DECEMBER 5TH REGULAR
MEETING OF THE AND OUR PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED.
>> KELLY, WILL YOU PLEASE CALL
THE ROLL?
CLEARLY I'M HERE FOR APRON'S
HERE SECRETARY WAS HERE
COMMISSIONER MILLS HERE COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH HERE.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE
.
>> SAUVé HERE.
COMMISSIONER CLARK COMMISSIONER
WEATHERBEE HERE YOU HAVE.
>> THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA I HAVE A MOTION MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER WHITE HOUSE AND
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DESH
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY I OPPOSED THE
MOTION CARRIES A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE MINUTES OF THE
NOVEMBER 14TH TWENTY TWENTY
THREE MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
SORRY APRON'S SORRY LONG DAY
ARE SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
SALVAJE.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION THE
MINUTES ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
PLEASE SAY I I OPPOSED SEEING
NONE THE MOTION CARRIES.
>> NEXT UP REPORTS OF THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATION COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH DO YOU HAVE ANY REPORT TO
MY OK I'LL GO FROM MEMORY.
>> I CAN'T GET MY NOTES FROM
LAST NIGHT OPEN BUT THERE WAS I
MEAN WE WERE BUSY LAST NIGHT WE
APPROVED THE LOCKWOOD PD TWEEK
.
>> WE APPROVED THE REZONING AND
THE SITE PLAN FOR BRIARWOOD.
WE WERE VERY HAPPY TO APPROVE
THE ABOLITION OF PREMIUM'S
FOREVERMORE AND WE APPROVED THE
TRC ONE SETBACKS AND THAT IS
ALL I CAN REMEMBER.
>> DID I FORGET?
NO, NO I SAID SO YEAH.
>> SORRY.
YEAH THANK YOU.
THAT'S A HANDFUL MUX KELLY DO
YOU HAVE A REPORT I DO.
I JUST WANT TO REVIEW BRIEFLY
THE HOLIDAY MEETING SCHEDULE
WITH THE COMMISSION.
THERE WILL BE NO WORKING
SESSION ON DECEMBER 12TH.
YOU HAVE ANOTHER REGULAR
SESSION ON TWELVE NINETEEN.
IT HAS TWO AGENDA ITEMS.
THERE'S NO ORDINANCE REVISIONS
COMMITTEE THIS MONTH AND IN
JANUARY YOU WILL HAVE A WORKING
SESSION ON JANUARY 9TH IF YOU
APPROVE.
SO IN YOUR CALENDAR THIS
EVENING AND A REGULAR SESSION
ON JANUARY 16TH WE TRY TO KEEP
THE EARLY MEETINGS FROM THE
BEGINNING OF JANUARY OUT
OF YOUR CALENDAR TO REDUCE
CONFLICTS AND WE'LL TALK ABOUT
THAT LATER THIS EVENING.
STEERING COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ARE IN
THE PROCESS OF BEING SCHEDULED
BY MANAGER LENAR FOR TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR.
THERE IS ALSO RELATED TO THE
COMP PLAN A COMMUNITY WIDE
SURVEY ASKING ABOUT GOALS,
COMMUNITY GOALS FOR THE PLAN
AND VALIDATING SOME ASSUMPTIONS
THAT IS IN DEVELOPMENT FOR
DECEMBER OR JANUARY.
SO PLEASE LOOK FOR THANK YOU.
DO OTHER COMMISSIONERS HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT?
>> COMMISSIONER SAUVé?
NOT WITHIN ANY COMMITTEE BUT I
HAVE SUBMITTED MY RESIGNATION
THAT SHOULD BE ENDING AT THE
END OF THIS CALENDAR YEAR SO
I'VE BEEN WORKING TO TALK TO
COMMITTEE MEMBERS TO HELP MAKE
RECOMMENDATIONS TO COUNCIL BUT
OTHERWISE
WILL BE IN THEIR
HANDS TO FIND A REPLACEMENT.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER APRON'S
THANK YOU FOR YOUR SERVICE
COMMISSIONER STEVIC.
UH, WE'RE SAD TO SEE YOU GO.
I JUST WANTED TO REPORT THAT
THE ORDINANCE PROVISIONS
COMMITTEE MET ON NOVEMBER
TWENTY EIGHT AND WE DISCUSSED
VARIOUS THINGS AROUND ZONING,
MINIMALISM AND ZONING PINK
ZONING AND JUST THAT KIND
OF EXPLORATORY CONVERSATION.
>> NOTHING IS DECIDED IT WAS
MORE OF A EXPLORATION OF IDEAS
JUST LETTING YOU ALL KNOW.
>> THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMITTEE LIAISON'S
OR UM I WILL ALSO TAKE THE TIME
TO THINK COMMISSIONER SALVAJE
FOR HER SERVICE.
ALL RIGHT.
WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS ARE
INCLUDED IN TODAY'S PACKET.
I'M GOING TO MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED ON THE PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE THE
RAISED HAND FEATURE OF VIEWING
THROUGH THE WEB LINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS, PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING ID
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITIES
WILL THAT CALLERS WHO HAVE
RAISED THEIR HANDS USING THE
LAST THREE DIGITS OF THEIR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME.
IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING TO SPEAK AND
WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND SILENCE SO THAT WE
CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION AT THIS TIME
?
>> MY NAME IS AND SINCE I TRIED
TO TALK TO YOU LAST TIME OVER
THE PHONE BUT I FELT LIKE MY
COMMENTS FELT A BIT FLAT THAT
THAT MEDIUM SO I WALK DOWN HERE
TO SEE YOU IN PERSON I LIVE ON
FIVE FOUR OR FIVE S FIFTH
AVENUE SO IT'S VERY CLOSE.
IT'S ALSO VERY CLOSE TO A POD
THAT WILL SOON HIT YOUR TARGET
CALLED TO TO AID PACKET PUDI
THIS WOULD BE PUBLIC COMMENT TO
SPEAK ON SOMETHING THAT'S NOT
ON THE AGENDA.
>> IT'S LIKE NEVER MIND I
APOLOGIZE AND WE WILL ALLOW
ABOUT SAID THE TIME.
YES YES.
OH GOOD GOD THANK YOU.
APOLOGIES RESET THE TIMER.
>> YEP OK THANK YOU SO SO
DURING THIS LAST TIME I TALK TO
YOU I LISTENED TO YOUR COMMENTS
WHEN YOU WERE TALKING ABOUT
PINK ZONING SO WHERE YOU SAW
PINK AND OPPORTUNITY.
I SAW RED I SAW DEEP RED AS
DANGER STREAMLINING APPROVAL
PROCESSES CAN QUICKLY DEGRADE
THE WHOLE PROCESS INTO IGNORING
ZONING LAWS AND OTHER STATUTES
THAT REGULATE DEVELOPED SO NO
PINK ZONE INCREASE ADHERE TO
THE CODE AS YOU WELL KNOWN IT'S
CALLED THE UDC AND WHILE THE
UDC IS NOT PERFECT, IT HAS MANY
WEAKNESSES LIKE PDS AND BUT
EVEN IS IF ADHERE TO THE
WORDING ARE WORKABLE.
I ACTUALLY WANTED TO QUOTE THE
WHOLE PUDI IN THE RECEIPTS ARE
VERY LONG.
IT'S ONLY ABOUT A PARAGRAPH
LONG AND BUT STILL IT WILL KILL
TOO MUCH TIME SO I'LL ONLY
QUOTE YOU THE LAST SENTENCE
THIS ZONING DISTRICT SHALL NOT
BE ALLOWED WHETHER THEY IS
PRIMARILY TO AVOID IMPOSITION
OF STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
OF OTHER ZONING CLASSIFICATIONS
OR CITY REGULATIONS RATHER THAN
TO ACHIEVE THE STATUS PURPOSES
ABOVE.
AND THIS IS EXACTLY WHAT THIS
TWO TO EIGHT PUDI DOES.
THEY TRY TO AVOID IMPOSITION
OF STANDARDS.
I DON'T HAVE THE TIME TO GIVE
YOUR BLOW-BY-BLOW OF THE
DETAILED ARGUMENTS BUT THEY ARE
IN LETTERS THAT ME AND MY
NEIGHBORS HAVE WRITTEN TO YOU
AND THEY ARE IN YOUR DOCKET.
BUT I IMPLORE YOU IMPLORE THAT
YOU USE YOUR PROFESSIONAL
EXPERTIZE TO PEEL AWAY THE FIG
LEAVES, DEVELOP THE DEVELOPERS
USE TO HIDE THE TRUE HARM THIS
PROJECT WILL CAUSE TO ANOTHER
BUT AND REJECT IT AS IT HAS NO
MERIT, NO AFFORDABLE HOUSING
WILL BE BUILT.
IT PROPOSES THE MINIMUM
OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY FEATURES
SEVERELY HAMPERING THE AID TO
ZERO GOALS IT IMPEDES PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION INSTEAD
OF BENEFITING IT.
AND LASTLY IT REPLACES ONE
OF THE FEW TOPOLOGICAL FEATURES
OF INHABIT A NICE HILL WITH A
TWELVE STOREY STEEL GLASS
FACADE.
YOU NEED TO SEND THIS PROJECT
TO THE DESIGN TABLE AND SEND IT
BACK TO SQUARE ONE SO IT
BECOMES COMPATIBLE WITH OUR
FORESE OR SO THAT IT TRULY
LIVES UP TO THE INTENT OF A
PODDY.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU SIR.
ANYONE ELSE PRESENT SEEING
NONE.
>> IS THERE ANYBODY REMOTELY
PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN FIVE
THREE FOR YOU PERMISSION TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION?
>> GOOD EVENING DR. I WANT YOU
TO SEE THE STREETS IN OUR TOWN
.
>> I'D LIKE TO TALK ABOUT
FLEXIBLE DEVELOPMENT OPTIONS
WHICH IS A BROAD CATEGORY THAT
INCLUDES PUTTIES AND THAT LAST
ITEM THAT THE PREVIOUS CALLER
THE PREVIOUS SPEAKER SAID ABOUT
PDS IS ONE OF THE REASONS WHY
THE 415 WEST WASHINGTON
APPROVAL WAS ILLEGAL BECAUSE IT
BROKE THAT SPECIFIC PORTION
OF THE U.S. I'VE GONE INTO THAT
DETAIL BEFORE.
>> I CAN GO INTO MORE DETAIL
AGAIN.
>> BUT FLEXIBLE DEVELOPMENT
OPTIONS ALSO INCLUDE A PREMIUM
AND OTHER THIRTY PERCENT OPTION
THAT WE HAVE ON THE BOOKS LAST
NIGHT AT CITY COUNCIL THE
PREMIUMS FOR DOWNTOWN WERE
ELIMINATED.
>> UNDERSTANDABLE.
KEN GARBER SPOKE ABOUT
SOMETHING THAT I'D LIKE TO
FOLLOW UP ON THAT HAD TO DO
WITH THAT 30 PERCENT HEIGHT
BUMP THAT CAN BE TRADED FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING OR FOR
SUSTAINABILITY SUBSIST SPECIFIC
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
SUSTAINABILITY MEASUREMENTS.
>> IT NEEDS A GOOD LOOK AT NOW
THAT THAT DOES APPLY WHERE
WE'VE CHANGED THE PREMIUM RULES
AND TO UNDERSTAND THAT I THINK
WE CAN DO BETTER WITH THE
SUSTAINABILITY PORTION OF THAT
OPTION IN OUR CODE AGAIN THE 30
PERCENT OPTION FOR THOSE WHO
AREN'T FAMILIAR WITH IT AND HOW
THAT CAME ABOUT THERE USED TO
BE SOMETHING CALLED PLAN
PROJECT IN DC THAT WAS NOT IN
COMPLIANCE WITH THE MICHIGAN
ZONING ENABLING ACT.
>> THE LOWERTOWN LAWSUIT
BROUGHT THAT TO LIGHT SO THE
PROJECT SECTION WAS ELIMINATED
AND REPLACED WITH SOMETHING
THAT ALLOWED THESE 30 PERCENT
FOR SOME SPECIFIC
SUSTAINABILITY AND
AFFORDABILITY TRADEOFFS.
THERE WAS ALSO SOMETHING THAT
WAS DONE AT THE SAME TIME THAT
ALLOWED IT ALLOWED THE
ELIMINATION PARTY MINIMUM IN
EXCHANGE FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
AND PERHAPS SUSTAINABILITY AS
WELL THAT THEY JUST SIMPLY HAVE
BEEN SUPERSEDED BY ABOUT A YEAR
LATER REMOVING PARKING MINIMUMS
ALTOGETHER.
IF SO, YOU'VE GOT SOMETHING ON
THE BOOKS THAT PERHAPS AS
YOU'RE LOOKING UDC CHANGES
SHOULD COME OUT.
>> I ACTUALLY REALLY LIKED THAT
WE PUT IN THERE THAT YOU COULD
ELIMINATE PARKING MINIMUMS AND
EXCHANGE FOR THOSE KIND
OF COMMUNITY BENEFITS BUT THAT
HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED AND I'M NOT
SURE IF IT'S ON THE BOOKS WHAT
THE FACT IS THAT IS IN GENERAL
DUTIES AND OTHER FLEXIBLE
DEVELOPMENT OPTIONS ARE TOOLS
THEY CAN USE.
THEY CAN BE MISUSED.
IT'S ALL IN WHAT YOU DO AND IN
THE HONESTY AGAIN 415 WHAT'S
WASHINGTON AP THAT WAS ILLEGAL
BECAUSE IT TRIED TO GET AROUND
THE LAW.
OTHER KIDS ARE JUST FINE.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT YOU'RE GOING
TO DO WITH THE TV FIVE CORNERS.
THAT'S AN APPLICATION THAT
NULLIFIES THE APPLICATION BY
THE LEGAL REZONING AT SOUTHTOWN
TO SEE ARE AS OPPOSED TO PRETTY
AND PUT YOURSELF IN A BIND.
>> THEY'RE GOOD LUCK WHEN THAT
COMES TO THE TABLE.
>> THANK YOU.
AND THE OTHER SPEAKERS REMOTELY
THERE AND OTHER SPEAKERS.
>> THANK WITH THAT I WILL CLOSE
PUBLIC COMMENT.
WE ARE MOVING ON TO PUBLIC
HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR THE NEXT
BUSINESS MEETING.
>> STAFF A PUBLIC HEARING ON
THE FOLLOWING ITEMS WILL BE
HELD BY THE ANN ARBOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION ON TUESDAY,
DECEMBER 19TH, 7:00 P.M. THE
FIRST THREE THREE THREE WILLIAM
STREET TYPE PLAN APPROVAL ZONE
D ONE DOWNTOWN CORE DISTRICT A
PROPOSAL TO DEMOLISH THE
EXISTING CREDIT UNION BUILDING
AND CONSTRUCT A SIXTEEN STOREY
RESIDENTIAL COMPLEX WITH
APPROXIMATELY 700 BEDS TOTALING
APPROXIMATELY TWO HUNDRED AND
THIRTY THOUSAND SQUARE FEET FOR
A PARKING SPACES.
OUR PROPOSED BUILDING FACING
WEST THE GROUND FLOOR OF A
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING INCLUDES
THE LEASING AMENITY ROOM TRASH
ROOM UTILITY ROOM, ELEVATOR AND
LOBBY SPACE, A MAINTENANCE ROOM
AND TOWNHOUSE UNITS, A POOL AND
AMENITY TERRORISTS ARE PROPOSED
ON THE 14TH FLOOR.
I'LL PREFACE THE NEXT UH,
PUBLIC HEARING.
NOTICE THAT THIS IS BEING RE
NOTICED DUE TO A UNFORTUNATE
BUT UM A MINOR BUT UNFORTUNATE
ERROR THAT PREVIOUSLY LISTED
FOR TONIGHT'S AGENDA THAT WE
WOULD BE REVIEWING SECTION FIVE
POINT TO EIGHT POINT EIGHT.
HOWEVER, WE ARE REVIEWING
SECTION FIVE POINT TO NINE
POINT.
I'LL CONTINUE TO READ THE
NOTICE AND HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS ABOUT THAT WHEN THIS
AGENDA ITEM COMES UP
.
AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE RELATED TO TRANSPORTATION
IMPACT ANALYSIS REQUIREMENTS
AND REVIEW CRITERIA SECTION
FIVE POINT TO NINE POINT EIGHT
REQUIRED PLAN INFORMATION
PARAGRAPH E TRANSPORTATION
IMPACT ANALYSIS IS PROPOSED TO
BE AMENDED UPDATING THE
REFERENCE FROM THE 2010
INSTITUTE OF TRANSPORTATION
ENGINEERS TRANSPORTATION IMPACT
ANALYSIS FOR SITE DEVELOPMENT
TO THE TWENTY TWENTY THREE
INSTITUTE OF TRANSPORTATION
ENGINEERS MULTIMODAL
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
FOR SITE DIMEL DEVELOPMENT
ELIMINATING LISTING INDIVIDUAL
COMPONENTS OF THE ANALYSIS TO
AVOID INCONSISTENCY AND
REDUNDANCY AND PROVIDING
SEPARATE REQUIREMENTS FOR AREA
PLANS.
SECTION FIVE POINT TO NINE
POINT SIX SITE PLANS PARAGRAPH
E CRITERIA FOR REVIEW OF A
TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS IS
PROPOSED TO BE AMENDED BY
UPDATING REFERENCES FROM
TRAFFIC AND OR PARKING IMPACT
ANALYSIS TO MULTIMODAL
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
AND STREET OR TRAFFIC
IMPROVEMENT TO TRANSPORTATION
IMPROVEMENTS.
>> THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO AGENDA NUMBER
EIGHT ON FISAS UNFINISHED
BUSINESS THERE ARE NONE SO WE
ARE MOVING RIGHT ON TO SECTION
NINE, A REGULAR BUSINESS.
>> THIS IS THE ONE THOUSAND ONE
CORE CORNWELL PLACE STREET
VACATION A PROPOSAL TO VACATE
CORNWALL PLACE A ONE BLOCK
STREET EXTENDING EAST FROM
NORTH ENGL STREET ALL
PROPERTIES ABUTTING CORNWALL
PLACE ARE OWNED BY THE
APPLICANT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN, THE REGENTS OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
THE STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL.
WE WILL MOVE ON TO PETITIONER
PRESENTATION.
>> DOES THE PETITIONER HAVE A
PRESENTATION OF I'M WITH THE
DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY RELATIONS
AND THE OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT
RELATIONS AT THE UNIVERSITY.
I WILL PRESENTATION BUT IF
THERE'S ANY QUESTIONS THAT YOU
HAVE PERFECT.
THANK YOU.
UM STAFF PRESENTATION I HAVE
JILL FACTURE.
THAT'S CORRECT.
I HAVE A UNFORTUNATE ZOOM AREA
RIGHT NOW THAT'S PREVENTING MRS
THATCHER FROM JOINING IS A
PANELIST.
HOWEVER I CAN BRING HER IN VIA
AUDIO IF THAT'S ACCEPTABLE TO
THE COMMISSION.
>> THAT'S FINE THANK YOU.
OK PLANNER THATCHER CAN YOU
PLEASE SPEAK SEE IF WE CAN HEAR
YOU.
>> HELLO.
SO THE CORNWALL STREET VACATION
IS AN APPLICATION FROM THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN TO
VACATE THIS DEAD END STREET.
IT'S ONLY A BLOCK IT RUNS OFF
OF NORTH ENGL STREET AND THE
UNIVERSITY OWNS ALL OF THE
PROPERTIES SURROUNDING IT WAS
ORIGINALLY PLANNED BACK IN
EIGHTEEN FORTY EIGHT BUT THERE
ARE NO REMAINING HOUSES ON THE
BLOCK AND IN ORDER TO VACATE
THE STREET COUNCIL PASSES A
RESOLUTION.
IF THE CITY VACATES THE STREET
ALL THE PROPERTY GOES TO THE
UNIVERSITY BECAUSE THEY ARE THE
PROPERTY OWNERS ON BOTH SIDES
OF THE OF THE PUBLIC RIGHT
OF WAY.
THERE ARE UTILITIES IN THE
STREET SANITARY WATER AND
STORMWATER MAINS.
THOSE WOULD ALL BE TRANSFERRED
TO THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
BECAUSE THEY ONLY SERVICE YOUR
PROPERTIES SO STAFF IS
RECOMMENDING THAT THE STREET
LOCATION BE APPROVED BEFORE
THIS APPLICATION CAN GO TO CITY
COUNCIL.
THERE ARE QUITE A FEW THINGS
THAT NEED TO BE WORKED OUT
BETWEEN THE CITY AND THE
UNIVERSITY THAT ARE
REQUIREMENTS OF CITY
ENGINEERING.
THEY ARE ALL ADDRESSING THOSE
PUBLIC UTILITIES SO IF THIS IS
APPROVED WELL THIS IS
RECOMMENDED FOR APPROVAL BY THE
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION.
WE'LL WORK THROUGH THOSE
ENGINEERING ALL THAT PLANNING
WHEN THEY'RE GOOD TO GO WITH
THOSE REQUIREMENTS THAT ARE
LISTED THE WORK AND THEN WE'LL
SCHEDULE THIS FOR PUBLIC
HEARING AT CITY COUNCIL SO
STAFF IS RECOMMEND APPROVAL
THROUGHOUT THE CASTLES ALL THE
SAME OWNERSHIP THE VACATION
WILL HAVE NO IMPACT VEHICULAR
PEDESTRIAN ACCESS AND IT'S IN
THE PUBLIC INTEREST AND WILL
FACILITATE FUTURE LAND USES
OF THE UNDERLYING PARCELS IN
THE APPLICATION IT WAS
MENTIONED THAT THIS PARCEL THIS
AREA MIGHT BE USED FOR A CHILD
CARE CENTER OWNED BY THE
UNIVERSITY.
>> THANK YOU.
PERFECT.
THANK YOU.
WE WILL MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP THE THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THIS ITEM FIRST
CALL AN INDIVIDUAL'S PRESENT
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION THEN
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
DURING THIS PUBLIC HEARING
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
IF YOU SEE MY PHONE OR USE THE
RAISED HAND FEATURE IF YOU
INCLUDE THE PUBLIC PHONE ACCESS
PLEASE ALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HANDS
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY
NAME.
IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THE
HOUSE IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
AND WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA AND SPEAK
CLEARLY FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME SEEING NO ONE?
>> IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD
LIKE TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED.
>> GIVE IT A FEW MORE SECONDS
WITH THAT I WILL CLOSE PUBLIC
HEARING THE PROPOSED MOTION.
I WILL READ THAT OUT LOUD AND
NO CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
HEREBY RECOMMENDS THAT THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVE
THE CORNWALL STREET PLACE
STREET VACATION MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER A COUNCIL MEMBER
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
APRON'S DISCUSSION OF THE
MOTION
COUNCIL MEMBER MEMBERS.
WELL THE ONLY THING I NOTICED
IS THAT WE REQUESTED TO GET OUR
STREET SIGNS BACK SO I JUST
WANTED TO HIGHLIGHT THAT AND
HOPE WE GOT THEM ANY DISCUSSION
OK WITH THAT I BELIEVE THIS IS
A PRETTY ADMINISTRATIVE VOTE
HERE AND THIS IS ADVANCING TO
CITY COUNCIL FOR FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
>> SO I WILL GO TO ROLL CALL
WITH NO FURTHER DISCUSSION.
>> COMMISSIONER LEE.
YES, COMMISSIONER EVANS.
YES, COMMISSIONER.
RIGHT.
YES, SORRY.
YES.
MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT.
CUSTOMER DISH.
YES.
>> YES.
CUSTOMER DISH.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
>> YES.
YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE YES.
YES.
>> COMMISSIONER CLERK YES.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE YES.
THAT CARRIES THANK YOU.
>> COMMISSIONER CLERK YES.
IT IS ADVANCING TO COUNCIL.
THAT CARRIES THANK YOU.
WE WILL BE MOVING ON TO AGENDA
IT IS ADVANCING TO COUNCIL.
NUMBER NINE, THE REGULAR
WE WILL BE MOVING ON TO AGENDA
BUSINESS AMENDMENTS TO THE
NUMBER NINE, THE REGULAR
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UDC TO
BUSINESS AMENDMENTS TO THE
INTRODUCE A PETITION.
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UDC TO
IT IS THE TRANSPORTATION IMPACT
INTRODUCE A PETITION.
ANALYSIS REQUIREMENT AND REVIEW
IT IS THE TRANSPORTATION IMPACT
CRITERIA THE UNIFIED
ANALYSIS REQUIREMENT AND REVIEW
DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENTS.
CRITERIA THE UNIFIED
THIS IS AMENDING THE CHAPTER
DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENTS.
FIFTY FIVE UDC SECTIONS FIVE
THIS IS AMENDING THE CHAPTER
POINT TO NINE POINT EIGHT AND
FIFTY FIVE UDC SECTIONS FIVE
FIVE POINT TO NINE POINT SIX
POINT TO NINE POINT EIGHT AND
RELATE TO THE TRANSPORTATION
FIVE POINT TO NINE POINT SIX
IMPACT ANALYSIS REQUIREMENTS
RELATE TO THE TRANSPORTATION
AND REVIEW CRITERIA AMENDMENTS
IMPACT ANALYSIS REQUIREMENTS
TO THAT SECTION FIVE POINT TO
AND REVIEW CRITERIA AMENDMENTS
NINE POINT EIGHT REQUIRED PLAN
TO THAT SECTION FIVE POINT TO
INFORMATION PARAGRAPH
NINE POINT EIGHT REQUIRED PLAN
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
INFORMATION PARAGRAPH
AND SECTION FIVE POINT TO NINE
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
POINT SIX SITE PLANS PARAGRAPH
AND SECTION FIVE POINT TO NINE
CRITERIA FOR REVIEW OF TRAFFIC
POINT SIX SITE PLANS PARAGRAPH
IMPACTS ANALYSIS WE ARE THE
CRITERIA FOR REVIEW OF TRAFFIC
STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
IMPACTS ANALYSIS WE ARE THE
POSTPONEMENT THE DECEMBER 19TH
STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
DUE TO THE ERROR IN THE NOTICE
POSTPONEMENT THE DECEMBER 19TH
THE PRIOR NOTICE AND WE'RE
DUE TO THE ERROR IN THE NOTICE
GOING TO GO ON TO PRESENTATION
THE PRIOR NOTICE AND WE'RE
OR SHOULD WE MOVE THE POSITION?
GOING TO GO ON TO PRESENTATION
>> I WOULD RECOMMEND
OR SHOULD WE MOVE THE POSITION?
ENTERTAINING THE THE BULK
>> I WOULD RECOMMEND
OF DISCUSSION ON OR ALL
ENTERTAINING THE THE BULK
OF DISCUSSION ON THE TWELVE
OF DISCUSSION ON OR ALL
NINETEEN AGENDA.
OF DISCUSSION ON THE TWELVE
ANOTHER REASON FOR THAT IS THAT
NINETEEN AGENDA.
WE WILL BE JOINED BY PLANER
ANOTHER REASON FOR THAT IS THAT
DELIO IN PERSON AS WELL AS
WE WILL BE JOINED BY PLANER
STAFF FROM THE TRANSPORTATION
DELIO IN PERSON AS WELL AS
GROUP OF CITY ENGINEERING.
STAFF FROM THE TRANSPORTATION
SO UM WE'LL HAVE MORE PEOPLE ON
GROUP OF CITY ENGINEERING.
HAND TO ANSWER DISCUSSIONS IF
SO UM WE'LL HAVE MORE PEOPLE ON
THERE IS BURNING QUESTION THIS
HAND TO ANSWER DISCUSSIONS IF
EVENING THEN WE CAN DO OUR BEST
THERE IS BURNING QUESTION THIS
TO TO ANSWER OR PERHAPS TO
EVENING THEN WE CAN DO OUR BEST
PREPARE FOR THE TWELVE NINETEEN
TO TO ANSWER OR PERHAPS TO
AGENDA IF THERE'S SOMETHING
PREPARE FOR THE TWELVE NINETEEN
THAT YOU DIDN'T SEE ADDRESSED
AGENDA IF THERE'S SOMETHING
IN THE STAFF REPORT.
THAT YOU DIDN'T SEE ADDRESSED
GOT IT WITH THAT THEN WE SHOULD
IN THE STAFF REPORT.
STILL HOLD THE PUBLIC HEARING
GOT IT WITH THAT THEN WE SHOULD
THAT WOULD BE THE BEST COURSE
STILL HOLD THE PUBLIC HEARING
OF AND I THINK TO HOLD THE
THAT WOULD BE THE BEST COURSE
PUBLIC HEARING AND THEN WITH
OF AND I THINK TO HOLD THE
THE NOTICE PUBLIC HEARING IT
PUBLIC HEARING AND THEN WITH
WOULD BE HELD AGAIN.
THE NOTICE PUBLIC HEARING IT
>> YES THEY WERE COMPLETELY
WOULD BE HELD AGAIN.
TRANSPARENT PERFECT.
>> YES THEY WERE COMPLETELY
>> SO WE'RE MOVING ON TO PUBLIC
TRANSPARENT PERFECT.
HEARING THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY
>> SO WE'RE MOVING ON TO PUBLIC
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK UP THE
HEARING THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY
THREE MINUTES.
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK UP THE
WHAT ABOUT THIS ITEM WE'LL
THREE MINUTES.
FIRST CALL AN INDIVIDUALS
WHAT ABOUT THIS ITEM WE'LL
PRESENT AND THEN THOSE THAT ARE
FIRST CALL AN INDIVIDUALS
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
PRESENT AND THEN THOSE THAT ARE
DURING THIS PUBLIC HEARING
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
DURING THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE A
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
RACE HAND FEATURE FOR PHONE
IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE A
ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
RACE HAND FEATURE FOR PHONE
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
FOUR SEVEN AND INTERMEETING ID
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR SEVEN AND INTERMEETING ID
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
SELECT CALLERS TO RAISE YOUR
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
HANDS USING THE LAST THREE
SELECT CALLERS TO RAISE YOUR
DIGITS OR BY NAME IF AVAILABLE
HANDS USING THE LAST THREE
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
DIGITS OR BY NAME IF AVAILABLE
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK AND WHEN
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE FOR QUIET
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK AND WHEN
AREA MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE FOR QUIET
BACKGROUND SOUND SO THAT WE CAN
AREA MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
BACKGROUND SOUND SO THAT WE CAN
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
COMMENTS.
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT I
COMMENTS.
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO THE
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT I
COMMISSION SEEING NO ONE.
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO THE
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
COMMISSION SEEING NO ONE.
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
REMOTELY?
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
>> THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED AS
REMOTELY?
WE WILL HAVE ANOTHER
>> THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED AS
OPPORTUNITY FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
WE WILL HAVE ANOTHER
I WILL READ THE PROPOSED MOTION
OPPORTUNITY FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
WHICH IS THAT THE ANN ARBOR
I WILL READ THE PROPOSED MOTION
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
WHICH IS THAT THE ANN ARBOR
PROPOSES THE POSTPONEMENT
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
OF THIS ITEM TO THE DECEMBER
PROPOSES THE POSTPONEMENT
19TH.
OF THIS ITEM TO THE DECEMBER
TWENTY TWENTY THREE MEETING
19TH.
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
TWENTY TWENTY THREE MEETING
HAMMERSCHMIDT SECONDED BY
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
COMMISSIONER MILLS' DISCUSSION
HAMMERSCHMIDT SECONDED BY
SEEING NONE WITHOUT OBJECTION
COMMISSIONER MILLS' DISCUSSION
THIS MOTION PASSES NO NO
SEEING NONE WITHOUT OBJECTION
OBJECTION THE MOTION CARRIES
THIS MOTION PASSES NO NO
THANK IT IS NOW POSTPONED TO
OBJECTION THE MOTION CARRIES
THE DECEMBER NINETEENTH
THANK IT IS NOW POSTPONED TO
HEARING.
THE DECEMBER NINETEENTH
THANK YOU.
HEARING.
MOVING ON TO AGENDA NUMBER TEN
THANK YOU.
A THIS IS OTHER BUSINESS.
MOVING ON TO AGENDA NUMBER TEN
THIS IS THE UPDATED CAPITAL
A THIS IS OTHER BUSINESS.
IMPROVEMENTS PRIORITIZATION
THIS IS THE UPDATED CAPITAL
PLAN THE STAFF PRESENTATION
IMPROVEMENTS PRIORITIZATION
OF THE ADJUSTMENT YEAR SIPI
PLAN THE STAFF PRESENTATION
PLAN UPDATES FOR THE FISCAL
OF THE ADJUSTMENT YEAR SIPI
YEAR OF TWENTY FOUR THROUGH
PLAN UPDATES FOR THE FISCAL
TWENTY NINE AND REQUEST FOR
YEAR OF TWENTY FOUR THROUGH
ADOPTION
.
THE RECOMMENDATION IS APPROVAL
AND WE HAVE KEILA KOHLMAN
CAPITAL PROJECT MANAGER HERE
FOR THE STAFF PRESENTATION.
>> THANK YOU THIS EVENING I'M
KAYLA IN CAPITAL PROJECTS ASSET
MANAGER HERE FOR PRESENTATION
OF THE UPDATED FY TWENTY FOUR
TO TWENTY NINE IP FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION WE DID DISCUSS
THIS AT A WORKING SESSION ON
NOVEMBER 8TH I BELIEVE IT WAS
SO WHAT YOU HAVE NOW IS THE
FINAL RESULT OF THE WELL I
WON'T SAY THE FINAL RESULT THE
DRAFT PLAN THAT'S PRESENTED FOR
YOUR CONSIDERATION IT INCLUDES
FOUR HUNDRED AND SEVENTY THREE
PROJECTS ABOUT ONE POINT TWO
BILLION DOLLARS WORTH OF WORK
THAT WOULD TAKE PLACE IN THAT
SIX YEAR PLANNING PERIOD F.J.
TWENTY FOUR TO TWENTY NINE AND
THEN I THINK IT'S ABOUT ONE
POINT SEVEN BILLION THAT
INCLUDES COSTS THAT MAY EXTEND
AND IN YEARS BEYOND FY TWENTY
NINE.
SO COSTS THAT HAVE BEEN
IDENTIFIED AS ASSOCIATED WITH
THESE PROJECTS SOME COSTS THAT
MAY HAVE BEEN INCURRED IN PRIOR
FISCAL YEAR AS WELL.
IF YOU'RE LOOKING AT THE NEW
DASHBOARD YOU SEE THAT THE
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS NUMBER THAT
SHOWS UP THERE IS THAT ONE
POINT SEVEN BILLION THAT IS
THAT SIX YEAR PLANNING PERIOD
PLUS OTHER ASSOCIATED COSTS
WITH THOSE PROJECTS BECAUSE
PROJECTS DON'T ALWAYS SPAN JUST
ONE YEAR THEY MAY HAVE STARTED
A YEAR EARLIER AND MAY GO A
YEAR LATER.
>> SO PRIMARILY I'M HERE
TONIGHT TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS
THAT YOU HAVE.
WE IN YOUR MATERIALS WE
PROVIDED THAT OVERVIEW OF ALL
OF THE THE PROJECTS AS PLANNED
THE FISCAL YEAR WHERE THE
SPENDING WOULD TAKE PLACE AND
THERE'S A COUPLE OF REFERENCE
SHEETS ONE THAT SHOWS A LISTING
OF ALL NEW PROJECTS IDENTIFIED
.
IT'S NOT THIS WAS SOMETHING I
MENTIONED IN THE WORKING
SESSION IN NOVEMBER.
IT'S NOT TYPICAL TO ADD A LOT
OF NEW PROJECTS DURING AN
UPDATE YEAR WHICH IS WHAT WE'RE
IN THIS YEAR.
THERE'S MORE THAN WE WOULD
TYPICALLY SEE WHICH WAS SORT
OF A CLEAN UP AND THE
DETERMINATION TO PULL SOME
FUNDING OUT AND SHOW IT AS ITS
OWN PROJECT INSTEAD OF ANOTHER
FUNDING SOURCE EMBEDDED WITHIN
A DIFFERENT EXISTING PROJECT.
SO YOU SEE THAT NEW PROJECT
LISTING.
YOU SEE A PROJECT CLEANUP
DOCUMENT WHICH SHOWS ANY
PROJECTS THAT HAVE BEEN
COMPLETED SINCE THE LAST
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLANNING
PERIOD AND ANY PROJECTS THAT
WERE ELIMINATED.
THERE ARE A FEW OF THOSE AND
MAYBE EVEN FEWER PROJECTS THAT
ARE PLACED ON HOLD AT THIS
TIME.
BUT WE STILL ARE USING THAT ON
HOLD FEATURE LOOKING FOR THAT
WHEN A PROJECT IS NOT EXPECTED
TO TAKE PLACE WITHIN THIS SIX
YEAR PLANNING PERIOD TO START
EMBRACING THAT ON HOLD STATUS
TO SO THAT IT IS NOT JUST
TUCKED AT THE FAR END OF IP AND
THEN CONTINUOUSLY PUSHED OUT
FURTHER AND FURTHER AND FURTHER
.
THOSE ARE A COUPLE OF THE
MATERIALS YOU RECEIVED.
YOU ALSO RECEIVED A FOLLOW UP
MEMO FROM THE NOVEMBER MEETING
TRYING TO GO INTO A LITTLE MORE
DETAIL ON SOME OF THE QUESTIONS
THAT WERE RAISED.
SO HOPEFULLY THAT THAT WAS
HELPFUL AND I'M HAPPY TO TAKE
ANY FURTHER FOLLOW UP OR
CLARIFICATION ON THOSE
QUESTIONS AND I THINK THIS TIME
I'LL TURN IT OVER TO CHARLIE
AND I'LL ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS.
>> THANK YOU.
>> PERFECT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
I'M GOING TO READ THE PROPOSED
MOTION WHICH IS THAT THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVED
THE UPDATED FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR THROUGH TWENTY
TWENTY NINE CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENTS PLAN AS A
SUPPORTING DOCUMENT FOR THE
CITY'S COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND
RECOMMENDS THAT CITY COUNCIL
APPROVE IT AS A BASIS FOR THE
FISCAL YEAR.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE CAPITAL
BUDGET MOVE BY COMMISSIONER IS
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MILLS
DISCUSSION.
DOES ANYBODY WANT TO KICK US
OFF QUESTIONS COMMENTS MR.
HAMMERSCHMIDT HI.
THANKS SO MUCH FOR US.
>> IT LOOKS SO COMPLEX AND LIKE
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR ALL
OF YOUR HARD WORK ON.
>> I JUST HAD ONE QUESTION FROM
SOMETHING THAT STUCK OUT TO ME
IN THE STAFF REPORT UNDER THE
HIGHLIGHTS NOT TO FIND IT AGAIN
THE NEW U OF M HOUSING THAT IS
ADDING THE FOR EXAMPLE THE NEW
HIGH LEVEL TRUNK GLENZER
CAPACITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT.
CAN YOU JUST CLARIFY FOR ME
THAT'S SOMETHING THE CITY WOULD
PAY FOR THE UNIVERSITY TO PAY
FOR IF IT'S A UNIVERSITY
PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
THAT WOULD IT BE COST SHARING
BETWEEN THE UNIVERSITY AND THE
CITY BUT IN THE COST SHARING
AGREEMENT I DON'T BELIEVE HAS
YET BEEN ESTABLISHED FOR THAT
PARTICULAR PROJECT.
BUT EARLY DISCUSSIONS LOOK LIKE
IT WOULD BE PRIMARILY FUNDED BY
THE UNIVERSITY WITH SOME
PARTICIPATION BY THE CITY.
>> IS THAT TYPICAL FOR ANY BIG
NEW HOUSING DEVELOPMENT?
>> IS THERE SOME SORT
OF NEGOTIATION ON IF THERE
NEEDS TO BE NEW INFRASTRUCTURE
?
I THINK SO.
I THINK THAT IT'S FAIRLY
TYPICAL.
I MEAN THIS IS A MAJOR
DEVELOPMENT THAT IS ADDING A
LOT OF NEW BEDS TO AN AREA THAT
ALREADY HAD LIMITED CAPACITY.
SO I DON'T THINK IT'S TYPICAL
WE WOULDN'T WANT TO I GUESS SET
THE EXPECTATION THAT WITH ANY
NEW DEVELOPMENT THIS LEVEL
OF SANITARY INFRASTRUCTURE
UPGRADE IS GOING TO BE NEEDED.
BUT THIS HAD A LOT TO DO WITH
THE PART OF TOWN THAT IT WAS IN
THE INFRASTRUCTURE, THE
CONDITION OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE
THAT WAS THERE AND JUST THE
MAGNITUDE OF THIS PROJECT.
BUT IT IS I DON'T THINK IT IS
UNCOMMON THAT WE WOULD HAVE
THIS SORT OF DISCUSSION WITH
ANY DEVELOPER EVEN IF IT IF IT
WERE NOT THE UNIVERSITY, IF IT
WERE OTHER PRIVATE DEVELOPERS
AS WELL.
>> I'M GLAD TO HEAR THAT THE
UNIVERSITY IS PROBABLY PAYING
FOR MOST OF IT AND I'M EXCITED
ABOUT THE IMPROVEMENTS TO THE
NEW PARK FOR THE BICENTENNIAL
TOO.
>> GREAT.
SO THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR ALL
YOUR WORK ON THIS.
>> THANK YOU TELCEL NO DISH.
SO YES, I WANT TO ECHO THE
THANKS I KNOW THIS IS REALLY
COMPLICATED.
>> I'M NOTING IN THE MIND THE
HIGHLIGHTS YEAH.
>> IN THE HIGHLIGHT DOCUMENT
YOU MENTION THAT OR IT IS
MENTIONED THAT STAFF WILL BE
LOOKING FOR OPPORTUNITIES TO DO
TRAFFIC CALMING WHEN THERE'S
SIGNIFICANT ROAD WORK, STREET
WORK BEING DONE.
IS ANY OF THAT LISTED OR HAS IT
NOT BEEN DETERMINED YET?
THAT'S ONE QUESTION AND THEN
SECOND QUESTION THERE ARE A LOT
OF ADDITIONAL STREETS ON THIS
AND AT LEAST ONE OF THEM I KNOW
THE SUMMIT STREET HAS BEEN
WANTING WELL IT WANTS SIDEWALKS
BUT I THINK IT ALSO WANTS BIKE
LANES.
>> IS THERE ANY THING HAPPENING
WITH ANY ADDITIONAL ANY OF THAT
ADDITIONAL TRAFFIC CALMING WORK
DOWN THERE OR MULTIMODAL WORK
DONE THERE?
THOSE ARE NOT THE SAME THING.
OK, THANK YOU.
YES, I ANSWER THE QUESTION
ABOUT THE TRAFFIC COMING WHERE
THERE'S ANY MAJOR STREET WORK
HAPPENING.
WHAT WE HAVE DONE AT THIS POINT
IS REVIEWED ALL OF THE PROJECTS
THAT ARE RESURFACING TYPE
OF WORK THAT WOULD
SIGNIFICANTLY DISRUPT THE
PAVEMENT THAT'S RESURFACING
RECONSTRUCTION, REHABILITATION
WE WOULDN'T CONSIDER THIS ON A
CAPITAL PREVENTATIVE
MAINTENANCE PROJECT WHERE THE
WORK IS NOT AS DISRUPTIVE BUT
ON ALL OF THOSE MORE DISRUPTIVE
PROJECTS IT'S BEEN ADDED TO THE
SCOPE THAT OPPORTUNITIES FOR
TRAFFIC COMING WILL BE EXPLORED
WHEN THE PROJECT IS DESIGNED.
BUT WE HAVE NOT DONE THAT
ANALYSIS AT THIS POINT TO
ACTUALLY SAY WHICH PROJECTS
WOULD HAVE CHANGES MADE OR WHAT
THOSE WOULD LOOK LIKE.
SO IT'S A BIT HIGHER LEVEL.
BUT THEN WERE YOU ASKING
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT A STREET
PROJECT?
>> LET ME SORRY.
YEAH, BECAUSE IT'S ONE OF THE
ADDITIONAL IN THE HIGHLIGHTS
IT'S ONE OF THE ADDED PROJECTS
IS DANIEL MAIN ON SUMMIT?
UM, SO BUT BUT WHAT I'M TAKING
FROM YOUR ANSWER IS THAT GIVEN
THAT THE PROJECTS THAT WERE
ALREADY ON THE BOOKS ARE BEING
EVALUATED AND NO DECISIONS HAVE
BEEN MADE, THESE PROJECTS WHICH
HAS JUST BEEN ADDED WOULDN'T BE
BEING EVALUATED YET.
>> RIGHT, RIGHT.
THAT'S RIGHT.
>> YEAH, I'M JUST PULLING UP
THAT SUMMIT, DANIEL TO MAINE TO
SEE WHAT THE SCOPE DOES
EXACTLY.
AND IT HAS A GENERAL BULLET
POINT THAT SAYS EVALUATE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR TRAFFIC
COMING ELEMENTS TO ENHANCE
COMFORT AND SAFETY FOR NON
MOTORIZED USERS INCORPORATE
WHERE APPROPRIATE.
SO THAT'S THE GENERAL LANGUAGE
THAT IS IS BEING USED AT THIS
TIME AND THAT'S ONE THAT IS
SCHEDULED IN NY.
TWENTY EIGHT AND TWENTY NINE.
SO IT'S A BIT FURTHER OUT AND I
THINK STAFF WILL START PROBABLY
WITH THE THE NEAR TERM PROJECTS
TO EVALUATE MORE SPECIFICALLY
WHAT CAN BE INCORPORATED.
>> COMMISSIONER MILLS THINKS I
THINK THAT THE MAP AGAIN IS A
REALLY GREAT ADDITION AND IF
PEOPLE ARE WATCHING I'M CURIOUS
IF YOU CAN I'M SURE IF LIKE ME
THEY GO INTO THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD
AND LOOK AT WHERE ARE THERE'S A
LOT OF OUR INFRASTRUCTURE WE
DON'T SEE WATER AND SEWER.
WE DON'T NECESSARILY KNOW WHERE
THAT IS OR KIND OF THE SHAPE
OF IT.
BUT WHAT A LOT OF PEOPLE DO SEE
IS THE ROADS AND WHETHER THEY
HAVE SIDEWALKS OR TRAFFIC
CALMING OR ARE IN BAD CONDITION
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT THAT.
CAN YOU TALK US THROUGH LIKE IF
YOU IF IT SEEMS LIKE THERE IS A
PLACE THAT IS LACKING SOMETHING
HOW PUBLIC GOES ABOUT EITHER
CONTRIBUTING A PROJECT OR
SPECIFICALLY EITHER OUR
SIDEWALK NETWORK OR OUR ROAD
NETWORK LIKE WHAT KIND
OF PERIODIC REVIEW THE CITY
DOES TO I THINK THERE'S
SOMETHING LIKE THE PACER SCORES
THAT'S WHAT I'M THINKING ABOUT
LIKE TO DETERMINE LIKE ACTUALLY
HOW BAD IS THIS COMPARED TO YOU
KNOW, AT WHAT POINT DOES IT
MAKE IT ONTO THIS?
WELL FOR HOW CAN I THANK YOU
FOR THIS QUESTION AND FOR HOW
THE GENERAL PUBLIC COULD
IDENTIFY ISSUES THAT THEY SEE
IN THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD SOMETHING
IN THEIR COMMUNITY THAT THEY
WANT TO BRING TO OUR ATTENTION
YOU CAN ALWAYS USE TO FIX IT AS
A WAY TO REPORT SOMETHING THAT
THAT MAY NOT
BE THAT THAT'S
GENERALLY MORE LIKE NEARER TERM
FIXES THROUGH THAT NOT LONGER
TERM CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS.
BUT IT COULD AT LEAST GET THE
REQUESTS SUBMITTED AND THEN IT
GET FUNNELED TO THE RIGHT STAFF
PERSON TO BE INCORPORATED IN A
CAPITAL PROJECT AND MY
INFORMATION IS ON THE SKYPE WEB
PAGE.
SO A TWO GOGI SKYPE IS WHERE
THE CITY'S CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
PLAN LIVES ONLINE AND MY
CONTACT INFORMATION IS THERE
CAKEHOLE IN A TWO GOV DOG AND
ANY MEMBER OF THE PUBLIC THEY
IDENTIFY WHAT THEY BELIEVE TO
BE A CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
PLANNING NEED MORE OF A LONGER
TERM INFRASTRUCTURE
IMPROVEMENT.
THEY COULD FUNNEL THAT MY WAY.
WE WE DO GET THOSE WE GET THEM
MOST OFTEN FOR ROAD PROJECTS
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT PEOPLE SEE
AND CAN RELATE TO A LITTLE
MORE.
BUT WE HAVE SOMETIMES GOTTEN
THOSE REQUESTS FOR WATER
QUALITY IMPROVEMENTS AS WELL OR
WATER PRESSURE.
SO THERE ARE DEFINITELY THOSE
FUNNEL INTO CREATING NEW
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
AND IT HELPS US UNDERSTAND THE
URGENCY SOMETIMES OF SOMETHING
THAT'S ALREADY BEEN IDENTIFIED.
SO THAT'S ENCOURAGED.
AND THEN HOW DO STAFF IDENTIFY
NEW CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
PROJECTS AND DO THOSE
EVALUATIONS?
YOU'RE RIGHT THAT WE DO PAISER
RATINGS SO I'M NOT GOING TO BE
ABLE TO PULL THE ACRONYM
DEFINITION OUT OF MY HAT RIGHT
NOW.
BUT SOME SORT OF PAVEMENT
EVALUATION SYSTEM IS THE GIST
AND THE ROADS ARE DO YOU KNOW
IT ABOUT YOU'RE ABOUT TO SAY SO
THE ROADS ARE THE CONDITION IS
RATED EVERY OTHER YEAR AND WE
COMPLETED THOSE RATINGS THIS
AUGUST OF TWENTY TWENTY THREE
ALL THE ROADS NEW RATINGS WERE
GATHERED AND WE USE THAT AND
OUR ASSET MANAGEMENT PLANNING
EFFORTS TO IDENTIFY WHICH ROADS
NEED TREATMENT, WHAT TYPE
OF TREATMENTS ROADS NEED AND
HOW TO APPROACH OUR OUR ROAD
SYSTEM OVERALL.
SO THAT'S KIND OF A WHOLE
NOTHER TOPIC ON ON HOW YOU PLAN
ROAD IMPROVEMENTS.
IT'S NOT ALWAYS WORST.
FIRST YOU DO YOU NEED A MIX
OF FIXES APPROACH THAT'S THE
CATCH TERM.
SO THAT'S WHY WE DO SOME
CAPITAL PREVENTATIVE
MAINTENANCE.
IT HELPS EXTEND THE LIFE
OF ASSETS AT A MUCH LOWER COST
THAN WHAT IT WOULD COST TO
FULLY RECONSTRUCT ROADS WHEN
THEY GET TO THE POINT OF TOTAL
FAILURE.
SO THAT'S WHAT WE DO FOR
STREETS AND WE DO HAVE OTHER
SIMILAR SYSTEMS WHERE WE ARE A
EVALUATING CONDITION OF OTHER
ASSETS INCLUDING OUR
UNDERGROUND INFRASTRUCTURE LIKE
OUR OUR UTILITY SYSTEMS, OUR
WATER SANITARY AND STORM.
>> YEAH, THIS IS A FOLLOW UP TO
THAT THEN IF THE PACER SOURCE
CAME IN THIS SUMMER, IF THERE
WERE ANY BIG CHANGES IN
CONDITION, WOULD THAT BE IN
THIS OR WOULD BE EXPECTED IN
THE NEXT YEAR IN THE NEXT ONE?
OK, YEAH, IT'S JUST TOO SOON
BECAUSE WE START CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT PLANNING THE VERY
BEGINNING OF SEPTEMBER AND
THOSE CAME IN LATE AUGUST AND
THE DATA'S GOT TO BE INTEGRATED
AND PROCESSED AND IT IS NOT YET
READY TO BE REFLECTED IN THIS
PLAN BUT IT WILL BE IN THE FALL
OF TWENTY TWENTY FOUR.
>> GREAT.
THANK YOU.
>> AND THE SURFACE EVALUATING
AND RATING NOT A THANK YOU.
>> ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS WITH
QUESTIONS?
>> I HAVE A QUESTION AS WE
CONTINUE TO KIND OF LOOK AT
WHETHER THE TYPES OF LAND USE
AND ZONING DESTINATIONS THAT WE
MIGHT HAVE, WHETHER IT IS TO
TAKE SOMETHING LIKE OR 1A OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT AND TRY TO
CREATE A LITTLE MORE DENSITY OR
TAKE ONE FOR EXAMPLE OUR
TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENTS NEED
TO SOMEWHAT MIRROR AGAIN THE
KINDS OF THOUGHTS THAT WE HAVE
REGARDING GROWTH CORRIDORS AND
SO DO I KNOW THAT THERE'S A LOT
OF AWAITING MECHANISMS THAT WE
GO THROUGH TO SAY HEY, WE'VE
THIS IS WHERE THE FUNDS ARE
COMING FROM.
THIS IS THE LIKELIHOOD THAT
THIS WE'RE GOING TO BE ABLE TO
GET THE MATCHING GRANT, ET
CETERA.
AND THIS IS THE NEED FOR IT.
ARE THERE ANY TYPES
OF WEIGHTING MECHANISMS FOR THE
TYPES OF POLICY I SUPPOSE
CHANGES THAT WE'RE MAKING AT
THE LEGISLATIVE LEVEL THAT
IMPACTS THE SIPI FOR EXAMPLE,
ROTARY'S DESIGNS ON TSAY ONE
BECAUSE THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
CAN'T BE REALLY INFLUENCED BY
THE PRIVATE SECTOR AND SO YOU
KNOW, MAKING SURE THAT WE HAVE
TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENTS IN
THOSE PARTICULAR CORRIDORS TO
REFLECT THE LAND USE POLICIES
THAT WE'RE HAVING.
ARE THERE ANY KIND
OF CONSIDERATIONS THE SIPI FOR
THOSE KINDS OF LEGISLATIVE
DESIGNATIONS?
I THINK GENERALLY YES.
BUT SPECIFIC WE RELATED TO LAND
USE ZONING.
I DON'T THINK SO.
I THINK LIKE AT A HIGH LEVEL I
WOULD AGREE THAT I WOULD SAY
THAT OUR POLICY DOCUMENT WE DO
TRY TO REFLECT OUR POLICY
GUIDANCE IN OUR SCORING
CRITERIA FOR CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS AND I
CAN'T THINK OF A METRIC OR
SCORING CRITERIA THAT WE THAT
REFLECTS LAND USE ZONING.
WE DO LIKE AS WE TALK THROUGH
IDENTIFYING ANY NEW CAPITAL
PROJECT WE TALK ABOUT HOW IT
ALIGNS WITH ANY EXISTING
COMPREHENSIVE PLANS AT THE CITY
SO THOSE CONVERSATIONS WOULD
HAPPEN BUT IN ACTUAL SCORING
OF THE PROJECT IT MAY NOT.
SO I THINK THAT'S SOMETHING WE
COULD LOOK INTO A LITTLE MORE.
WE DO PLAN TO DOVE INTO OUR
SCORING CRITERIA DURING THIS
SORT OF IN-BETWEEN SEASON FOR
THE FALL OF TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
WHEN WE DO A FULL CYCLE.
WE TALKED LAST FALL WITH YOU
ALL ABOUT HOW WE WANTED TO GET
OUR SUSTAINABLE AND EQUITY
METRICS UPDATED AND SO THAT ALL
WE HOPE TO TACKLE IS JANUARY
FEBRUARY KIND OF WINTER TIME
FRAME AND LOOKING ALSO AT
ALIGNMENT WITH LAND USE
PLANNING COULD BE PART OF THAT
AS WELL.
>> FOOD FOR THOUGHT.
YEAH.
ALL RIGHT, GREAT.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
YES, COMMISSIONER.
THANK YOU.
THANKS FOR THE UPDATE AND
THANKS FOR THE MEMO AND
RESPONDING TO THE BOLLARDS, THE
STREET LIGHTS AND BIKE
INFRASTRUCTURE, MY QUESTIONS
ARE ALL ABOUT THOSE SO THE THE
PROCESS AS I LOOK AT THE
DOCUMENT AND UNDERSTAND OUR
ROLE HERE AT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION IS THIS IS OUR
DOCUMENT RIGHT.
LIKE WE ARE THE OWNERS.
I DON'T KNOW HOW WE USE SO WE
ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR IT AND THEN
IT GOES TO CITY COUNCIL AND
THEN THEY ADOPTED INTO THE
BUDGET SOMEWHAT IF I CAN
INTERJECT ABSOLUTELY.
THIS BODY APPROVES THE CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENTS PLAN AND CITY
COUNCIL APPROVES THE PROJECT
AND THIS DOCUMENT IS A BASIS
FOR THE BUDGET.
SO CITY COUNCIL DOES NOT
EXPLICITLY APPROVE THE CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENTS.
IT STAYS HERE.
IT STAYS HERE BUT CITY COUNCIL
APPROVES THE CAPITAL BUDGET
WHICH IS INHERENTLY BASED ON A
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN.
SO IT'S KIND OF A TECHNICALITY
BUT I THINK I TECHNICALITIES
ARE IMPORTANT.
SO WITH THAT AND I JUST WANT TO
FOCUS FOR A MOMENT ON THE THE
SECOND OF YOUR THREE RESPONSES,
THE ONE ON THE STREET LIGHT SO
AS YOU AND THANK YOU AGAIN FOR
RESPONDING TO OUR QUESTIONS
ABOUT THIS.
SO THE CROSSWALK IMPROVEMENTS
ARE A TWO TO TWO TO THREE WHICH
IS NOT ON YOUR FISCAL YEAR
TWENTY FOUR TWENTY NINE BUT IS
ON THE DASHBOARD SO AND TWO
POINT SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS HAS
BEEN ALLOCATED OVER SIX YEARS
WITH NO ALLOCATION IN YEAR
TWENTY TWENTY NINE OR SO.
AND WHEN I DOVE INTO THAT
SECTION INTO THE DASHBOARD IT'S
TARGETING VERY SPECIFIC STREETS
.
IT'S NOT COMPREHENSIVE WITHIN
THE CITY.
SO ONE QUESTION THAT THAT
PRESENTS TO ME IS THERE THERE'S
THE MAINTENANCE OF EXISTING
CROSSWALK.
THERE IS THE IDENTIFICATION AND
REPAIR OF CROSSWALKS WHEN THERE
IS SIGNIFICANT RESTRUCTURING
OF A ROADWAY BUT THERE DOESN'T
SEEM TO BE A CATCH OR A PLACE
FOR THE ADDITION OF CROSSWALK
IN PLACES THAT ARE UNDERSERVED.
AND I WONDER HOW WE AT PLANNING
WOULD BRING THAT FORWARD AND
ARE WE THE RIGHT BODY TO DO
THAT?
IS THAT SOMETHING WE JUST NOTE
SEND IT TO PLANNING STAFF AND
THEN THEY SEND IT TO THE RIGHT
DEPARTMENT.
THAT PERSON TAKES RECEIPT OF IT
AND THEN COMES TO YOU THROUGH
THAT MECHANISM OR DOES IT COME
FROM THIS TABLE?
SO THE QUESTION IS SOMETHING
THAT MIGHT BE MISSING THAT
SHOULD BE COVERED IN THE
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN.
WHERE SHOULD IT ORIGINATE?
I CAN ALSO OFFER REFLECTIONS ON
THAT LOOK, SIR, BECAUSE I'M
READING INTO IT LOOK, HOW ABOUT
YOU BECAUSE I'M READING
SPECIFICALLY THAT PROJECT THAT
YOU CALLED UP TO SEE.
>> YEAH, MY UNDERSTANDING
OF THE THE RELATIONSHIP OF THIS
BODY TO THIS YIPPY IS ONE
OF WHETHER OR NOT IT REFLECTS
THE SPIRIT OF THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN.
SO DOES THE MESH WITH AND IS
IT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE THE
PLANS THAT ARE OTHERWISE
ADMINISTERED AND USED EVERY
MONTH AT THIS TABLE THE IN THE
WEEDS OF THIS PARTICULAR
PROJECT SEEMS LIKE IT'S NOT
ADEQUATE OR I THINK THAT THE
STREET NEEDS AN ADDITIONAL
CROSSWALK.
UM WOULD BE A VERY DIFFICULT
THING TO MANAGE PRACTICALLY OUT
OF THIS BODY AND ALSO AS THE
FACT THAT THE CITY HAS A
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION AND
HAS EXPERT STAFF THAT ARE
LOOKING AT THESE THAT LEVEL
OF I THINK IN THE WEEDS WOULD
NOT BE APPROPRIATE WAYS THAT WE
COULD INTEGRATE MORE COMMENTS
OF THAT KIND.
FOR EXAMPLE, HOW WOULD AREAS
THAT ARE UNDERSERVED BY
CROSSWALKS WHICH MAY BE A
RECOMMENDATION IN THIS PART
OF OUR PLANNING CAN BE INVOLVED
IN SIPI COULD BE ACCOMPLISHED
FOR EXAMPLE BY HOLDING MORE
WORKING SESSIONS AS WE MOVE
INTO A NON ADJUSTMENT
YEAR BUT
ONE WITH MORE SUBSTANTIAL
CHANGES?
THOSE ARE SOME OF MY
REFLECTIONS ON THAT.
I WONDER WHAT KAYLA COMMON
THINGS.
>> THANK YOU, PLANNER KELLY.
I THINK THAT VERY WELL
ARTICULATED BETTER THE ROLE
OF THIS ORGANIZATION AND THE
TYPES OF CHANGES THAT ARE THIS
COMMISSION ORGANIZATION THAT
WOULD BE APPROPRIATE TO BE TO
INFLUENCE I WAS LOOKING
SPECIFICALLY INTO YOUR QUESTION
ABOUT TWENTY TWENTY THREE AND
READING THE FIRST BULLET OF THE
SCOPE IT SAYS IMPROVING TESTING
CROSSWALKS TO CURRENT DESIGN
STANDARDS AND INSTALL NEW
CROSSWALKS WITH DIRECTION FROM
THE VISION ZERO TRANSPORTATION
PLAN.
SO I THINK SORT OF CONSISTENT
WITH WHAT PLANNER KELLY WAS
TALKING ABOUT IN THIS BODY'S
ROLE TO IDENTIFY WHETHER OR NOT
YOU BELIEVE THE SIPI IS MESHING
WITH AND IS CONSISTENT WITH THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLANS OF THE
CITY.
THE VISION ZERO TRANSPORTATION
PLAN IS OUR TRANSPORT POLICY IN
THIS PROJECT.
IS THIS SPECIFIC CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT IS INTENDED
TO IDENTIFY CROSSWALK
IMPROVEMENTS AND NEW CROSSWALK
INSTALLATIONS CONSISTENT WITH
WHAT'S IDENTIFIED THAT PLAN IN
THERE ARE SPECIFIC LOCATIONS
PROPOSED FOR THE TWENTY FOUR
TWENTY NINE FISCAL YEARS AFTER
TWENTY FOUR THROUGH TWENTY NINE
FURTHER ONES WOULD BE
IDENTIFIED AS WE GET CLOSER TO
THOSE YEARS THERE IS THERE ARE
DOLLARS PROGRAMED THROUGH FY
TWENTY NINE TO TO IN ORDER TO
ACHIEVE THAT.
>> YEAH AND I WAS JUST USING
THAT BECAUSE YOU REFERENCED IT
SO IT CAME FROM YOUR RESPONSE I
DIDN'T PICK THAT ONE
ARBITRARILY YOU YOU PUT IT IN A
PARENTHETICAL AS AN EXAMPLE AND
SO I JUST PICKED IT UP TO SAY
THIS IS THIS IS ONE PLACE WHERE
IT'S BEING FUNDED.
HOWEVER IT DOESN'T SEEM LIKE
IT'S HAPPENING COMPREHENSIVELY
.
SO LET ME LET ME RESTATE WHAT I
THINK I HEARD WHICH IS YOU THE
THE VISION ZERO TRANSPORTATION
PLAN IS THE PLACEHOLDER OR THE
THE APPROPRIATE PLACE WHERE
CONCERNS AROUND CROSSWALKS
LIGHTING WOULD OCCUR AND THEN
FROM THERE IT COMES DOWN INTO
THE ZIP THROUGH SPECIFIC
HIGHLIGHTED PROJECTS THAT'S
ACCURATE AND THEN CONNECTING
THAT WITH WHAT PLANNER KELLY
HAS SHARED WITH US THEN OUR
ROLE WOULD BE IF WE WANTED ANY
INPUT INTO THAT IT WOULD BE TO
WHOEVER THE RESPONSIBLE PARTIES
ARE FOR THE VISION ZERO
TRANSPORTATION PLAN B THAT THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE
SUBCOMMITTEE OF COUNCIL OR
COUNCIL ITSELF AND SO WE COULD
IN THEORY COMMUNICATE WITH THEM
THROUGH SOME MEANS EITHER A
WORKING SESSION, A MEMO OR SOME
PUBLIC COMMENT AND THAT WOULD
BE THE APPROPRIATE PLACE FOR
THIS.
ANY CONCERNS THAT WE WOULD HAVE
ABOUT THIS INFRASTRUCTURE AND
THAT THE BY TIME IT GETS TO THE
CITY IT HAS ALREADY WORKED
THROUGH SORT OF THAT
PRIORITIZATION PROCESS AND OUR
ROLE AS CUSTODIANS OF THE SIPI
IS JUST TO MOVE FORWARD WHAT
HAS ALREADY BEEN DECIDED THE
CORRECT PLACE TO ADDRESS POLICY
THAT WOULD INFORM FOR
CROSSWALKS WOULD BE THE MOVING
TOGETHER TOWARD VISION ZERO
PLAN.
SO IF THAT PLAN WHICH WAS
RECENTLY ADOPTED IS LACKING OR
NEEDS TO BE UPDATED THEN WE
COULD HAVE CONVERSATIONS ABOUT
HOW TO INITIATE AMENDMENTS OR
UPDATES TO THAT AND TO ENSURE
THAT THAT FILTER IS USED TO
FILTER PROJECTS FOR SUBSEQUENT
CAPITAL AND PREVENT PLANNING.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU FOR OUR
NOTIFICATIONS.
WE'RE KIND OF THE LARGE
TIMELINES I THINK YOU WERE
STARTING TO MENTION THAT YOU'RE
GOING TO GET INTO IT DURING THE
WINTER TIME BUT AS WE'RE MOVING
FROM THE JUST ADJUSTMENT PERIOD
INTO THE MAJOR REVAMP OF THE
TWO YEAR CYCLE, WHAT IS NEXT
YEAR'S LARGE BLOCK LOOK LIKE?
>> YEAH, WELL I AS YOU KNOW MY
I CAME INTO THIS ROLE ABOUT A
YEAR AND A HALF AGO AND WE'VE
BEEN ABLE TO MAKE SOME CHANGES
ALONG THE WAY.
BUT I'VE ALSO BEEN MAKING NOTE
OF OTHER CHANGES I'D LIKE TO
MAKE WITH THE PROCESS INCLUDING
THE SCORING CRITERIA, THE
INTAKE FORM.
SO WHEN YOU SEE THE SCOPE
SHEETS THAT HAVE THE DETAILS
ABOUT EACH PROJECT, JUST
LOOKING FOR SOME IMPROVEMENTS
THAT CAN BE MADE TO STREAMLINE
HOW WE ARE INPUTTING THE DATA
FOR EACH OF OUR EACH OF OUR
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS.
SO THAT IS A LOT OF WHAT I HOPE
TO TACKLE IN THE WINTER MONTHS.
THE JANUARY THROUGH MARCH LET'S
SAY IS KIND OF OVERALL
IMPROVEMENTS TO ALL OF OUR
INTERNAL RESOURCES FOR BUILDING
THE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN
AND THEN I WILL SET MEETINGS
TYPICALLY THOSE GO OUT IN
FEBRUARY OR MARCH TO GET IT ON
STAFF CALENDARS THAT WE MEET
WITH EACH OF THOSE ASSET
GROUPS.
SO WE'VE GOT FOURTEEN ASSET
GROUPS AND IN A FULL PLAN YEAR
AND INCLUDES THREE MEETINGS
WITH EACH ASSET GROUP.
SO I'VE GOT A LOT OF SCHEDULING
TO DO, A LOT OF STAFF SCHEDULES
TO COORDINATE AND THOSE
MEETINGS TYPICALLY BEGIN IN
SEPTEMBER.
WHAT I HAD WHAT I DID IN MY
FIRST YEAR WHEN I WAS BUILDING
THE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN
LAST YEAR I STARTED WITH SOME
MEETINGS OVER THE SUMMER TO GET
A HEADS UP ON WHAT WE EXPECTED
TO BE COMING AS FAR AS NEW
PROJECTS.
SO TALKING WITH STAFF FROM EACH
OF THOSE 14 ASSET GROUPS
IDENTIFYING ANY ANY NEW
PROJECTS COMING ALONG THE WAY.
THOSE TAKE THE LONGEST UPDATES
TO EXISTING PROJECTS TAKES SOME
TIME BUT IN PUTTING A WHOLE NEW
PROJECT THINKING THROUGH THE
SCOPE OF IT, THINKING HOW IT'D
BE FUNDED, WHAT'S ITS BUDGET
ESTIMATE GOING TO LOOK LIKE?
ALL THAT TAKES MUCH MORE TIME.
SO PROBABLY OVER MAYBE EVEN THE
SPRING AND SUMMER START TALKING
WITH OUR STAFF ABOUT NEW
PROJECTS THAT ARE COMING,
THINKING ABOUT HOW WE ARE
ESTIMATING OUR PROJECT COST IS
SOMETHING THAT WE CAN ALWAYS
IMPROVE LOOKING AT DATA FROM
RECENT PROJECTS CONSTRUCTED TO
GET BETTER COST ESTIMATES IS
KIND OF LIKE AN ONGOING
IMPROVEMENT AREA AND THEN I MAY
TRY TO START THOSE STAFF
MEETINGS A LITTLE EARLIER.
TYPICALLY AS I SAID, THEY'VE
STARTED IN SEPTEMBER BUT WE MAY
BE ABLE TO GET A HEAD START TO
SPREAD IT OUT A LITTLE BIT.
ISN'T AS INTENSE IN SEPTEMBER,
OCTOBER , NOVEMBER TIMEFRAME
AND THEN AFTER I'VE GOTTEN
THROUGH THE THE MEETINGS WITH
ALL THE FOURTEEN ASSET GROUPS I
PULLED TOGETHER SO TABLE THAT
YOU SAW WITH THE EACH OF THE
SIX FISCAL YEARS THAT I'M
PULLING THAT TOGETHER TALKING
WITH FINANCE TO LOOK AT OVERALL
BUDGETS.
>> SO IF WE HAVE THIRTEEN
MILLION DOLLARS WORTH OF STORM
WATER PROJECTS IN ONE YEAR,
DOES THAT DO OUR FINANCIAL
FORECAST IN IN OUR MODELS
PREDICT THAT THAT'S GOING TO BE
ACHIEVABLE TO BE FUNDED?
SO I'M SPENDING SOME TIME WITH
THAT'S AN EXAMPLE I GUESS BUT
SPENDING SOME TIME WITH FINANCE
SEEING WHETHER OR NOT WE EXPECT
TO BE ABLE TO FUND THE WORK AS
PLANNED, MAKING ADJUSTMENTS AS
NEEDED AND THEN I COME TO YOU
ALL LAST YEAR I BROUGHT A
PRESENTATION WORK SESSION
PRESENTATION KIND OF SIMILAR TO
WHAT WE DID IN NOVEMBER BUT
LAST YEAR I DID IT IN SEPTEMBER
SO QUITE A BIT EARLIER AND IT
WAS AT THAT POINT IT'S VERY
HIGH LEVEL.
I DON'T HAVE HIGHLIGHTS TO
SHARE BUT I CAN WHAT I CAN DO
AND AT THAT EARLY STAGE IS JUST
TALK ABOUT THE PROCESS WHICH
CAN BE HELPFUL FOR ANY NEW
COMMISSIONERS OR ANY MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC FOLLOWING ALONG I
WOULD WELCOME ANY INPUT FROM
THIS GROUP IN TERMS OF WHAT YOU
WOULD LIKE TO SEE WHEN YOU
WOULD BE MOST INTERESTED.
IS IT HELPFUL FOR ME TO COME A
LITTLE LATER WHEN I HAVE MORE
INFORMATION TO SHARE FOR THE
WORK SESSION OR WOULD YOU LIKE
ME TO COME EARLIER IN CASE YOU
HAVE INPUT TO BE INCORPORATED
INTO THOSE STAFF MEETINGS SO
THAT'S SORT OF OPEN.
>> YEAH YEAH.
NO I THINK THAT'S ONE BECAUSE I
THINK KIND OF WHAT I'M HEARING
FROM COMMISSIONER MILLS AS WELL
AS COMMISSIONER IS KIND OF LIKE
HOW DO WE GIVE INPUT THAT IS
LIKE READILY IMPACTFUL AND ALSO
THE QUESTION OF HOW DOES THE
PUBLIC REALLY GET THEIR
MESSAGING ACROSS RIGHT.
HEY, THIS IS WHAT I'M SEEING
AND THESE ARE THE KIND
OF PRIORITIES AND SO AND KIND
OF WHAT WE HEARD WAS EITHER TO
FIX IT AND OR EMAILING YOU OR
REACHING OUT TO YOUR COUNCIL
MEMBERS, ET CETERA.
BUT IS THERE A MORE I GUESS
LEGIBLE OR DEDICATED LINE TO
GIVE FEEDBACK AND IS THERE KIND
OF NORMATIVE TIME FRAME AND
THAT THAT'S KIND OF WHERE I WAS
GOING WITH THAT AND FOR MYSELF
KIND WHERE MY HEAD WAS GOING
WAS COULD THERE BE A WORKING
SESSION WHERE WE BRING KIND
OF A REVIEW OF IT BECAUSE IT
SEEMS LIKE A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT
OF WORK.
THAT'S WHAT FORTY TWO MEETINGS
YOU GOT TO YOU KNOW FOURTEEN
DIVISIONS, THREE MEETINGS EACH
AND SO WE'RE CERTAINLY NOT
DISCOUNTING THAT AND I'M JUST
TRYING FIGURE OUT WHAT MIGHT BE
THE BEST WAY TO PROVIDE
ACTIONABLE FEEDBACK AS OPPOSED
TO YOU KNOW, ANYONE CAN GIVE
YOU A WISH LIST BUT OBVIOUSLY A
LOT OF QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS
GOES INTO, YOU KNOW, CREATING
THIS SO I HOPE I KIND
OF ENCAPSULATED THE THOUGHTS
OF GOING INTO THIS.
HOW CAN THE PUBLIC GET A LITTLE
MORE INVOLVED?
THE MAP IS A WONDERFUL,
WONDERFUL TOOL TO KIND OF START
THAT.
BUT I THINK CLARITY AND MORE
LEGIBILITY IN TERMS OF THE
TIMING OF THINGS AND THE AVENUE
BY WHICH FEEDBACK CAN BE GIVEN
MIGHT BE HELPFUL.
I PERSONALLY REALLY ALWAYS LIKE
THE ANNUAL KIND OF REMINDERS
OF THIS SKYPE PRESENTATION IN
SEPTEMBER AND PERHAPS WE CAN
MAYBE THINK ABOUT PUSHING BACK
TO POTENTIALLY OCTOBER SO
THERE'S MORE INFORMATION AND A
LITTLE MORE SUBSTANCE AND THEN
COMING IN FOR ADOPTION.
SO IT'S IT'S A LITTLE FRESHER
BUT MAYBE POSSIBLY I KNOW WE'RE
GOING TO TALK ABOUT THE
SCHEDULE NEXT YEAR BUT ALSO TO
POSSIBLY THINK ABOUT A WORKING
SESSION IN WHICH WE HAVE THIS
KIND OF A REVIEW SO THAT WE
COULD TALK I HAVE A LITTLE MORE
FREE FLOWING CONVERSATION.
I THINK IF I CAN JUST RESPOND
I
THINK THAT WHAT YOU RAISE IS
SORT OF THE PARTICULARLY
RELATED TO THE GENERAL
COMMUNITY IS THE PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT COMPONENT OF THE
CAPITAL AND PREVENT PLAN WHICH
IS SOMETHING GIVEN THAT MY
BACKGROUND BEFORE VIP WAS DOING
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT FOR THE CITY
FOR TWELVE YEARS OR SO.
SO I THAT IS SOMETHING I'M
PASSIONATE ABOUT AND I'M
INTERESTED I THINK THAT THE THE
MAP WAS INTENDED TO HOPEFULLY
IT HAS SERVED THAT PURPOSE IN
GOING A LONG WAY TO MAKING THE
CITY MORE ACCESSIBLE RATHER
THAN HUNDREDS OF PAGES
OF STATIC PDF SEARCHABLE.
IT'S INTERACTIVE.
YOU CAN ZOOM IN, YOU CAN SEE
THESE DETAILS BUT IT DOESN'T
GET ALL THE WAY THERE AND
CLARIFYING HOW BE BACK HOW YOU
CAN PROVIDE FEEDBACK.
WE DON'T HAVE ANY SORT OF LIKE
INTAKE FORM FOR THE PUBLIC TO
FILL OUT IF IF YOU BELIEVE A
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT IS
NEEDED.
SUBMIT IDEAS HERE OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT.
I THINK THAT WE COULD LOOK INTO
THAT A LITTLE MORE, MAYBE
EXPLORE WHAT OTHER COMMUNITIES
ARE DOING, SEE IF WE CAN LEARN
FROM OTHERS AS WELL AND MAKE
IMPROVEMENTS TO THAT PROCESS.
SO I'D BE HAPPY TO TAKE THAT
AWAY AS MY SORT OF IN THAT
JANUARY THROUGH MARCH TIMEFRAME
I WAS TALKING ABOUT OTHER
IMPROVEMENTS TO PROCESS THAT
COULD BE ONE YEAR OR EVEN LIKE
A DROP DOWN AT THE MAP WHERE
YOU CAN KIND OF CLICK IT DOWN.
IT SHOWS YOU JUST KIND
OF JANUARY THROUGH DECEMBER
HERE SOME CRITICAL DATES.
>> RIGHT.
AND SO TO MAKE IT KIND OF , YOU
KNOW, INTERACTIVE.
I'M SURE SOME GRAPHICAL USER
INTERFACE SOFTWARE ENGINEERS
LIKE THEY ARE SO EASY SO
PERFECT.
>> ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
QUESTIONS?
>> YES, COMMISSIONER WHICH SO I
WAS ON A PANEL RECENTLY AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AROUND
ACCESSIBILITY AND IT WAS SORT
OF THE SKYPE THAT WAS ON MY
MIND BECAUSE THAT'S THE PLACE
THAT THE CITY UNDERTAKES ITS
INITIATIVES TO IMPROVE THE
BUILT INFRASTRUCTURE AND THE
MAJORITY OF THE PARTICIPANTS
AND THE PANELISTS WERE UNAWARE
THAT THAT WAS THE VECTOR
THROUGH WHICH THESE CHANGES
OCCUR.
AND I THINK THERE THERE IS
SOMETHING THIS IS PART OF WHY I
KEEP ASKING THESE QUESTIONS
BECAUSE I'M JUST REALLY TRYING
TO UNDERSTAND LIKE ARE WE JUST
A RUBBER STAMP OF THIS PROCESS
AND IT'S HERE BECAUSE IT
DOESN'T BELONG ANYWHERE ELSE.
SO IT IT LANDS HERE OR DO WE
HAVE SOME INFLUENCE OVER THE
USE OF THE LAND IN IN A SENSE
BECAUSE THIS IS THE BUILT
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT SUPPORTS A
LOT OF THE INITIATIVES
INCLUDING WHAT'S HAPPENING IN
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLANT.
I UNDERSTAND WHAT PLANNER KELLY
CAUTIONS WERE AND I TAKE THOSE
TO HEART BUT SOMETHING THAT IS
SOMEWHERE IN BETWEEN NOT US
SORT OF INSERTING OURSELVES
INTO THE PROCESS BECAUSE IT IS
A VERY COMPLEX PROCESS BUT
TRYING TO BE A BETTER VECTOR
AROUND THE USE OF THE LAND AS
WELL AS THE BUILT
INFRASTRUCTURE TO ACCOMPLISH
THE GOALS THAT ARE SET OUT IN
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN WHICH IS
A SORT OF A PLANNED COMMUNITY
THAT IS ACCESSIBLE FOR ALL AGES
AND ALL ABILITIES AND THERE ARE
SO MANY ENTRY POINTS INTO THAT
AND I WONDER MAYBE POST
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IF WE MIGHT
NOT LOOK AT HOW WE CAN BE
BETTER FACILITATORS OF THAT
CONVERSATION?
I'M NOT SUGGESTING ANYTHING
RIGHT NOW BECAUSE IT FEELS A
LITTLE BIT TOO BIG TO GET MY MY
ARMS AROUND AND ESPECIALLY
BECAUSE A LOT OF THE CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT PLANS ARE INFORMED
BY POLICY DECISIONS AND THOSE
POLICY DECISIONS ARE NOT
FREQUENTLY UPDATED AND GIVEN
OUR CURRENT SET, MANY OF THEM
ARE 15 16 YEARS OLD BUT WE LIVE
IN A VERY DIFFERENT ENVIRONMENT
THAN WE DID WHEN THOSE PLANS
WERE ADOPTED.
SO THERE'S THAT THAT
DISCONNECT.
SO MAYBE AS A CAUTIONARY TALE I
WILL BE ASKING MORE QUESTIONS
LIKE THIS EVERY TIME YOU COME
TO THE TABLE.
>> SIR, THANK YOU, MIKE AND GAS
COMMISSIONER NILS.
I REALLY APPRECIATED THAT AND
IT'S GOT ME THINKING RIGHT
ABOUT UM MAYBE INCREMENTAL
CHANGES IN PARTS OF THE
COMMUNITY.
IT'S SORT OF BUSINESS AS USUAL
BUT THERE IS DRAMATIC CHANGE
LIKE HOW ARE WE PRIORITIZING
THAT AND AND IT'S AND IT'S
MULTIPLE THINGS TOGETHER.
RIGHT TO TO HANDLE CHANGE
PARTICULARLY IF IT'S EVENLY
SPREAD BUT IF IT'S IN
PARTICULAR PLACES IT REQUIRES
INVESTMENT TO BE IN OUR
INFRASTRUCTURE TO ALLOW FOR
THAT.
>> THIS IS REALLY A QUESTION
FOR THOSE PEOPLE THAT ARE ON
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
COMMITTEE OR MISKELLY WHICH IS
HOW I WOULD IMAGINE IN THE IN
THE COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT.
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, WHETHER
OR NOT WE'RE ANTICIPATING THAT
THE RECOMMENDATIONS THAT COME
OUT OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
PLANNING PROCESS WILL INCLUDE
UPDATES THAT NEED TO BE MADE IN
THE C IP JUST LIKE YOU YOU
REFERENCED KIND OF THE MOVING
TOWARDS VISION ZERO TOGETHER
AND I MEAN I KNOW EIGHT TO ZERO
IS NOT STABLE BUT I'D LIKE AND
THIS IS THE PLACE WHERE WE NEED
CHANGES.
>> SO THAT'S ONE.
>> AND ALSO I KNOW THAT A LOT
OF OUR COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING
DISCUSSION AND CERTAINLY WHAT
WE DO HERE IS ABOUT DEVELOPMENT
ON PRIVATE LAND.
BUT I WOULD IMAGINE IN THE
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT THAT
HAPPENS ALONG THE WAY NOT
EVERYBODY UNDERSTANDS THAT AND
THERE'S PROBABLY A WHOLE LOT OR
THERE MAY BE SOME THINGS TO
GLEAN FROM THE ENGAGEMENT THAT
HAPPENS FROM WITH THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING PROCESS
THAT CAN INFORM LIKE WHAT ARE
SOME OF THE THINGS THAT KEEP ON
COMING UP THAT MAYBE SHOULD BE
ADDED SOMEWHERE TO THE C IP AND
I DON'T I DON'T KNOW IF EITHER
OF THOSE ARE HAPPENING AND I
DON'T WANT TO OBVIOUSLY MOVE
THE SCOPE BUT I THINK IT'S
HELPFUL TO KNOW FOR LIKE IS
THIS A FOLLOW UP CONVERSATION
OR IS THIS ACTUALLY GOING TO
HAPPEN ALONG THE WAY OR NOT?
THERE ARE ABSOLUTELY
OPPORTUNITIES TO TALK ABOUT THE
EXPLICITLY RELATIONSHIP ABOUT
CAPITAL INVESTMENT AND THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING PROCESS
AND ONE OF JUST ONE OF THOSE
CONVERSATIONS THAT I'VE BEEN
PRIVY TO IS WILL WE IN THE
AREAS THAT MAY BE RECOMMENDED
FOR INCREASED DENSITY OR
ABSORBING MORE COMMUNITY GROWTH
?
DO WE HAVE THE RIGHT PUBLIC
SEWER INFRASTRUCTURE AND IN
GENERAL FROM WHAT I HEAR IS
THAT OUR WATER INFRASTRUCTURE
THE THE PRIMARY THING TO
INVESTIGATE AND LOOK AT BUT DO
WE HAVE THE THE SEWER
INFRASTRUCTURE TO UH, MANAGE
THAT POTENTIAL DENSITY IF THAT
WERE TO BE RECOMMENDED IN
PLACES THAT IT WOULD BE
RECOMMENDED THAT HAS FOLLOW-ON
IMPLICATIONS FOR CITY THE
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN
ITSELF.
SO THAT IS A EXACTLY THE THE
TYPE OF SCENARIO THAT WOULD BE
DISCUSSED IN COMPREHENSIVE
PLANNING CONVERSATIONS AND AND
THEN THAT BECOMES A FILTER THAT
IS AN INPUT FOR OUR ASSET
MANAGEMENT AND INVESTMENT
RECOMMENDATIONS THAT GO INTO
THE.
IT BECOMES PART OF THE INPUTS
FOR THE WORKING GROUPS THAT
CAITLIN MENTIONED.
SO YES, DOES THAT ANSWER THAT
QUESTION?
>> YES.
SO IT MAY COME UP.
IT WILL COME UP AND
PARTICULARLY IF THEY'RE LIKE
THAT WILL BE CONSIDERED IN
TERMS OF GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION.
>> SORRY.
RIGHT.
AND THERE'S RELATIONSHIPS
BETWEEN THE RECOMMENDATIONS
THAT ARE MADE FOR FOR ZONING
AND LAND USE AND WHAT NEEDS TO
BE SUPPORTED FROM THE PUBLIC
SECTOR SIDE SO THAT UH YES, I
WOULD IMAGINE THAT THAT WOULD
COME UP VERY NATURALLY AND ALSO
IN MORE TARGETED WAYS.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS SEEING
I'M GOING TO MOVE THIS TO A
ROLL CALL VOTE.
>> THANKS, KELLY.
COMMERCIALLY, YES.
>> I'M SORRY I MISSED WHO WAS
MOVED IN SECOND BUT THAT WAS A
WHILE AGO.
>> UH, I THINK I THINK IT WAS
AND MILLS THAT WAS ONE THANK
YOU.
CERTAINLY YES.
MR. ABRAMS.
YES.
PRESSURE WISE.
I'M SORRY.
YES.
>> YES, MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT.
I'M SORRY.
YES.
>> YES, MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT.
CUSTOMER DISH.
YES.
SURE.
CLARK YES.
MR. MILLS.
YES.
MR. WEATHERBY.
THAT CARRIES THANK YOU.
YES.
>> THANK YOU.
THAT CARRIES THANK YOU.
>> I WONDER IF ANYONE SAID NO
>> THANK YOU.
TO THE CFP RECOMMENDATION.
>> I WONDER IF ANYONE SAID NO
>> SO THAT'S REALLY KIND
TO THE CFP RECOMMENDATION.
OF WHAT IT GETS ME THINKING I
>> SO THAT'S REALLY KIND
MIGHT BRING THAT UP IN THE
OF WHAT IT GETS ME THINKING I
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS
MIGHT BRING THAT UP IN THE
MOVING ON TO AGENDA ITEM NUMBER
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS
TEN TWENTY TWENTY FOR CALENDAR
MOVING ON TO AGENDA ITEM NUMBER
ADOPTION STAFF RECOMMENDATION
TEN TWENTY TWENTY FOR CALENDAR
IS APPROVAL MISKELLY IN YOUR
ADOPTION STAFF RECOMMENDATION
PACKET THERE IS A PROPOSAL FOR
IS APPROVAL MISKELLY IN YOUR
A TWENTY TWENTY FOUR CALENDAR.
PACKET THERE IS A PROPOSAL FOR
WE ARE ABLE TO PROPOSE THIS AS
A TWENTY TWENTY FOUR CALENDAR.
SOON AS CITY COUNCIL APPROVES
WE ARE ABLE TO PROPOSE THIS AS
THEIR TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
SOON AS CITY COUNCIL APPROVES
CALENDAR FOR ADOPTION WHICH
THEIR TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
JUST RECENTLY HAPPENED AND SO I
CALENDAR FOR ADOPTION WHICH
WILL NOTE THAT A FREQUENT
JUST RECENTLY HAPPENED AND SO I
QUESTION AND SORT OF COMPLAINT
WILL NOTE THAT A FREQUENT
IS HEY WHO MOVED MY MEETING AND
QUESTION AND SORT OF COMPLAINT
WHY IS IT ON A WEDNESDAY?
IS HEY WHO MOVED MY MEETING AND
SO WE MANAGER LEONARD HAS DONE
WHY IS IT ON A WEDNESDAY?
US ALL A FAVOR AND FOR ALL
SO WE MANAGER LEONARD HAS DONE
OF OUR SANITY TO DESCRIBE WHICH
US ALL A FAVOR AND FOR ALL
MEETINGS ARE BEING MOVED TO
OF OUR SANITY TO DESCRIBE WHICH
WEDNESDAYS OR RESCHEDULED SOME
MEETINGS ARE BEING MOVED TO
TO THURSDAYS AND WHY THAT'S THE
WEDNESDAYS OR RESCHEDULED SOME
CASE, YOU CAN SEE IT'S
TO THURSDAYS AND WHY THAT'S THE
PRIMARILY DUE TO ELECTIONS,
CASE, YOU CAN SEE IT'S
PUBLIC HOLIDAYS AND TO
PRIMARILY DUE TO ELECTIONS,
ACCOMMODATE
OUR CITY COUNCIL
WHICH WOULD THEN MOVE TO
TUESDAYS AND SOME OCCASIONS ANY
QUESTIONS ON THE UH, PROPOSED
MEETING CALENDAR?
OK, THERE IS A PROPOSED MOTION.
>> YEAH.
THAT THAT CLEARLY HAS YES.
THIS COMMISSION APPROVES THE
ADOPTION OF THE TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
MEETING CALENDAR MOVED BY UH
COMMISSIONER AND SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION
.
>> ANY DATES POP UP IS
PROBLEMATIC FOR FOLKS.
>> UM, I'LL BE MISSING THE
FEBRUARY 13TH JUST HEADS UP BUT
IF IF NONE UM I'LL DO A VOICE
VOTE.
>> UM SORRY.
NO ACTUALLY I MAY BE WRONG
ABOUT THIS BUT MONDAY, JANUARY
15TH IS A HOLIDAY AND IS IT IS
IT THE SECOND IT'S THE THIRD
TUESDAY.
OK UM BECAUSE THE COUNCIL IS
MEETING THE SECOND AND FOURTH
MONDAYS SO AT FIRST AS
OF MONDAY AND THE FIRST MONDAY
GOOD.
SO THERE WILL NOT BE A CONFLICT
ON THAT DAY.
OK THANK YOU.
>> YOU'RE THINKING OF THE
JANUARY 16TH MEETING WONDERING
IF THAT WOULD BE I MUST I THINK
I WAS CONFUSED.
I WAS TRYING TO JUGGLE ALL
THESE SHIFTS THAT ARE BEING
MADE AND SO WHEN I SAW THE
SIXTEENTH I THOUGHT OH I THINK
THAT'S COUNCIL BUT IT'S NOT
COUNCIL BECAUSE WE'RE THE
SECOND AND FOURTH FOR JANUARY
BECAUSE THE FIRST IS A MONDAY
WHICH MUST HAVE BEEN SO TRYING
TO DO THE FIRST IN THE THIRD
WAS A MESS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
OK, SO EVERYTHING LOOKS GOOD TO
ME SO FAR BUT WE'RE HAPPY TO
AMEND THIS IF THERE IS A
CONFLICT OR ISSUE REVEALS
ITSELF LATER ON.
BUT WE DID HAVE MULTIPLE SETS
OF EYES ON US SO HOPEFULLY IT'S
GOOD.
OK, ANY OTHER THOUGHTS IF NOT
WITHOUT OBJECTION THIS MOTION
PASSES AROUND MOTION CARRIES
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA.
WELL, FIRST AN INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY PLEASE
PRESS STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE THE RAISED HAND
FEATURE IF YOU WENT THROUGH THE
WEB LINK FOR PHONE ACCESS,
PLEASE CALL 877 FIVE THREE FIVE
TO FOUR SEVEN AND INTERMEDIATED
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF ALSO CALLERS THAT
HAVE RAISED THEIR HANDS USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF THE
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
AND ONE SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO
A QUIET AREA, MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISES SO THAT WE
CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF COMMUNICATION OR
PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
COMMENTS.
>> DO WE HAVE ANYBODY PRESENT
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK SEEING
NO ONE?
>> IS THERE ANYONE THAT'S
REMOTELY LOOKING TO PARTICIPATE
?
THERE ARE NO CALLERS.
>> THANK YOU.
I'M GOING TO GET YOU JUST GIVE
IT TO THREE MORE SECONDS.
I'M GOING TO CLOSE PUBLIC
COMMENT.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
AGENDA NUMBER TWELVE COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS.
>> IS THERE ANY COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS HIGHWOOD JUST
LIKE TO TAKE A SECOND TO THINK
COMMISSIONER SALVAJE FOR HER
SERVICE.
I HAVE ALWAYS LISTENED TO HER
COUNSEL AND HER FEEDBACK AS
SOMEBODY WHO IS A VERY STRONG
PROFESSIONAL IN THE WORLD
OF ARCHITECTURE, DESIGN AND
DEVELOPMENT.
SO THE CITY WILL MISS YOUR
SERVICES AND WE ARE I'M
PERSONALLY GRATEFUL AND I HAVE
NO DOUBT THAT YOU'RE GOING TO
CONTINUE TO DO GREAT WORK IN
PUSHING THE CITY FORWARD.
>> SO THANK YOU SEEING NO OTHER
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS, I
AM MOVING TO AGENDA NUMBER
THIRTEEN ADJOURNMENT MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER WISCH SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
>> ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I
THINK WE ARE ADJOURNED